**Bootstrapping new projects comes with some friction.** Even if it only takes a
couple of commands, taking the time to come up with a project name or waiting
for packages to install can disrupt your flow.

If you regularly create scratchpad projects using the same template, it's
helpful to always have an empty project ready.

That's what `nextpage` does: it prepares a _spare_ project for you, so it's
ready when you need it. You can start working _immediately_ while another spare
project is bootstrapped in the background.

## Gettings Started

Install globally from npm:

```
npm install -g nextpage
pnpm add -g nextpage
```

Run the `nextpage` command in the directory where you store your scratchpad
projects. This will initialize the scratchpad directory by adding the
`.nextpage` subdirectory:

```
.nextpage
├ template
│ └ README.md
├ open
└ prepare
```

Running the `nextpage` command again at this point will bootstrap and open your
first project (using the default template) and prepare a spare project.

You can configure how the project opens and customize the bootstrapping process
by editing the files in the `.nextpage` subdirectory.

## Configuration

The `open` script is opens a prepared project. In this script, you probably want
to launch your favorite editor or IDE. You may also want to execute additional
commands, like launching a dev server:

```sh
#!/usr/bin/env bash
code . # open project in vscode
npm run dev # start dev server
```

When this script is executed, cwd is the prepared project's directory. The
randomly generated project name is also passed to the script via the `$NEXTPAGE`
environment variable, though you likely won't need it.

The `prepare` script contains the bootstrapping steps. It is used to prepare a
spare project. First, the `.nextpage/template` directory is used to create a new
directory with a randomly generated name. Then, the `prepare` script is executed
in this directory.

For example, for a Node project you might want to have a template with a
`package.json` file and install dependencies in the `prepare` script:

```
.nextpage
├ template
│ └ package.json
├ open
└ prepare
```

```sh
#!/usr/bin/env bash
npm install
```

Ensure that the `open` and `prepare` files are executable; otherwise, they will
be ignored.

Since the bootstrapping steps are executed in advance, there's always a randomly
named spare project prepared. Its name is stored in the `.nextpage/next` file.
Do not edit this file manually.
